---
title: Root Log for March 3, 2021.
date: 2021-03-10
description: I played the Lizard Cult against the Eyrie, Riverfolk, Marquise, and Corvids and I super lost.
tags:
  - rootboardgame
  - boardgames
  - rootlog
---

## Overview

I am trying to document our Root games in a more regular, nerdy fashion so I can tighten up my
thinking around the game itself and fine-tune my own strategies in general. We try to play at least
once a week.

[Root][] is my favorite board game in the world at the moment. It is hideously complex, and I've
played more incorrect games than I have correct games, but we're getting there.

### Game Setup

* Factions
  * Me: Lizard Cult
  * Terra: Eyrie Cult
  * Alex: Riverfolk Company
  * Gabe: Corvid Conspiracy
  * Lauren: Marquise de Cat
* Map: Starter
* Deck: Normal

### Final State

* Riverfolk won with 30 VP.
* Eyrie went into turmoil twice.

## General Thoughts

My heart wasn't quite in it tonight! I had a lot of fun socializing, but wasn't being careful in
what I did and what targets I went after. This is the last time I try the "put myself under the
Eyrie's foot and get stepped on for acolytes" strategy; it doesn't generate enough action economy
vs. the resource loss of missing warriors to defend those gardens that I can stand up with my
newfound acolytes.

Alex loved the Otters, as we knew he would. Savvy play, an early funds lead before the table cut him
off, and some good protectionism late game ("awful nice clearing you have here") got him the win.

Terra had a great bird round as well. She wasn't getting lucky on card draws but was the other force
to be reckoned with at the table.

Gabe continued to threaten with the Corvids, lots of good plot placement and scoring -- I think he
and Terra would have been contending for the lead if Alex hadn't pulled off a couple of monster
turns midgame (7 points in turn 5!).

Lauren was playing the Cats for the first time and did pretty well, especially against people who've
played the game more and had more experience with their factions.

I came in last. 🥉 But I had a good time proving to myself that I love the Cult and can't
sustainably play the RNG too much against people who know what they're doing.

## My Faction Performance

I was never a real threat to anyone during the game. I insisted on mostly generating acolytes
through battle loss instead of maintaining a warrior presence on the board to see how far I could
push it. Turns out: not that far.

I didn't score enough, holding on to those cards for "just one more recruit"... except the recruits
weren't building toward any larger goal and thus weren't doing a lot of good versus, y'know,
*actually getting points in the game*.

I never built a solid defensive presence in my corner of the board nor established a strong
offensive foothold with my gardens -- planning on making gardens only through acolytes is Bad
Business.

But I had fun seeing my friends and watching the play between the factions.

### BAD ROOT PLAY ALERT

Lizards can have more than one garden in a clearing. Don't know why I thought they couldn't (except
for the Eyrie's Roosts, and the Corvid's plot tokens, and and and). That changes things so much for
my future strategies. Jesus.

## Conclusions

The Lizard cult continues to be one of my favorites, despite everything. I don't feel like I've
fully cracked them. Their RNG-ness is enticing and enforces one of the moral lessons of Root: "don't
focus on any one thing too much".

[I'm working on a data explorer for our games here][rootgames]. I kept per-turn scores this game but
haven't updated the DB behind that site with the data yet. Soon, though.

## Next Time

More Lizards. Moles still on the horizon.

[root]: https://ledergames.com/products/root-a-game-of-woodland-might-and-right
[rootgames]: https://rootgames.drhayes.io/rootgames
