src/blog/i-dont-need-a-zettelkasten-exactly.md, before:

---
title: I don't need a zettelkasten exactly
description: In which I convince myself about not needing a zettelkasten
date: 2024-03-11
tags:
  - text
  - exocortex
  - zettelkasten
draft: true
---

I love thinking about personal knowledge management but I don't know what it is.
I love writing with pens and paper but my most prolific writing is happening digitally *by far*.

What's up with that?

## Superfluous, Personal Background

I have a yen for office supplies.
I love blank notebooks and pens (not fountain pens, they just never clicked for me) and I love writing on actual, physical paper.
I have a collection of blank notebooks of varying kinds, and I'm very particular about what kind of pen I use.
[This is my current favorite pen, by the way.](https://www.jetpens.com/Uni-ball-Signo-RT1-UMN-155-Gel-Pen-0.38-mm-Black/pd/10411)

My love of a beat-up, scribbled-in notebook found its height in [Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097576/).
I loved the "Grail diary" that Dr. Jones Senior kept.
I especially loved [how the grail diary looked](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=indiana+jones+last+crusade+grail+diary&t=ffab&iax=images&ia=images), all beat-up and scribbled in... but also occasionally illuminated and stuffed with other random, interesting papers.

I've had a habit of writing down interesting bits of text in notebooks since I was a teenager, perhaps fed by that movie.
It turns out that habit of writing in notebooks could, grandly, be called [keeping a commonplace book](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commonplace_book).

If you wanted to be **really** organized, you could index your commonplace book [the way John Locke indexed his](https://publicdomainreview.org/collection/john-lockes-method-for-common-place-books-1685/).

I currently keep most of my brain in a [local Tiddlywiki instance](https://tiddlywiki.com/) that I run on my desktop computer.
It's my journal and my to do tracker, my notes app, and my exocortex.
I occasionally write notes about things I'm reading in it, or save highlights of passages into it.
I've spent an inordinate amount of time playing with other such systems for keeping notes: [writing things in Baronfig notebooks](https://baronfig.com/products/confidant-hardcover-notebook?variant=35638867020), [Roam Research](https://roamresearch.com/), [Logseq](https://logseq.com/), and [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) to name a few.
Tiddlywiki hits the sweet spot of being 100% local and very customizable.
I think it's a [convivial tool](https://econation.one/blog/convivial-tools/).

Ultimately, though, what am I doing?
What's the point of any of this?

## Inspiration

I was inspired to write this post because of this [very cool post about making zines from piles of notes](https://dophs.substack.com/p/how-its-made).
I love reading process stories, seeing what other people do to make the interesting things they make.
My favorite part of this post is seeing all the paper notes, organized and indexed, and how it all flows from the author's phone to a journal, then on to an index card, then, finally, on to a zine.
I appreciate the orderliness.
I'm maybe even a bit jealous of that level of organization.

Do I need one of those, a system for writing things down, indexing them, and then flipping through them later?

If I did need one of those, [this article about how to get started with keeping a Zettelkasten](https://boffosocko.com/2022/06/10/reframing-and-simplifying-the-idea-of-how-to-keep-a-zettelkasten/) would be the way to go.
I love how it's centered more on the writing itself and less on the form.

You can read [this post by someone adopting the method](https://blog.viktomas.com/posts/slip-box/) and then [this post by the same person 16 months later and what has changed and what they've learned](https://blog.viktomas.com/posts/slip-box-after-a-year/).

You could be very grateful to [Writing Slowly](https://writingslowly.com/) for digging through [the top ten Zettelkasten posts on Hacker News so you don't have to](https://writingslowly.com/2023/05/21/i-read-the.html).
You could be *even more grateful* to read [Writing Slowly's very useful article on starting a zettelkasten](https://writingslowly.com/2024/03/06/how-to-start.html).

Or you could become a heretic and [read about antinet zettelkastens](https://www.scottscheper.com/fg).


## Counterpoint

[Julian Simpson](https://www.cartoongravity.com/) is a writer whose [work I've enjoyed very much](https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p06spb8w).
He's been tinkering with lots of public knowledge management apps, very publicly.
Recently, though, [he came to a realization](https://www.cartoongravity.com/a-realisation/):

> As I plunge into yet another notes app (UpNote this time, which is excellent), I am hit with the sudden realisation that this is the purest of pure procrastination...
>
> Maybe notes don't want to be indexed and Zettelkastened and back-linked. Maybe they want to just be filled out and worked on until they go from a spark to something actionable? Or they want to be left alone in the dark, to grow on their own, until someone stumbles over them again? Write the idea down and walk away. Maybe that is the key. Maybe serendipity is just flicking through those notes until something catches your eye?

Commit message:

New post: I don't need a zettelkasten exactly

src/blog/i-dont-need-a-zettelkasten-exactly.md, after:

---
title: I don't need a zettelkasten exactly
description: In which I convince myself about not needing a zettelkasten
date: 2024-05-02
tags:
  - text
  - exocortex
  - zettelkasten
  - weblogpomo
---

I love thinking about personal knowledge management but I don't really know what it is.
I love writing with pens and paper but my most prolific writing is happening digitally *by far*.

What's up with that?

## Superfluous, Personal Background

I have a yen for office supplies.
I love blank notebooks and pens (not fountain pens, they just never clicked for me) and I love writing on actual, physical paper.
I have a collection of blank notebooks of varying kinds, and I'm very particular about what kind of pen I use.
[This is my current favorite pen, by the way.](https://www.jetpens.com/Uni-ball-Signo-RT1-UMN-155-Gel-Pen-0.38-mm-Black/pd/10411)

My love of a beat-up, scribbled-in notebook found its height in [Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt0097576/).
I loved the "Grail diary" that Dr. Jones Senior kept.
I especially loved [how the grail diary looked](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=indiana+jones+last+crusade+grail+diary&t=ffab&iax=images&ia=images), all beat-up and scribbled in... but also occasionally illuminated and stuffed with other random, interesting papers.

I've had a habit of writing down interesting bits of text in notebooks since I was a teenager, perhaps fed by that movie.
It turns out that habit of writing in notebooks could, grandly, be called [keeping a commonplace book](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commonplace_book).

If you wanted to be **really** organized, you could index your commonplace book [the way John Locke indexed his](https://publicdomainreview.org/collection/john-lockes-method-for-common-place-books-1685/).

I currently keep most of my brain in a [local Tiddlywiki instance](https://tiddlywiki.com/) that I run on my desktop computer.
It's my journal and my to do tracker, my notes app, and my exocortex.
I occasionally write notes about things I'm reading in it, or save highlights of passages into it.
I have an ADHDer's love of productivity systems and, thus, I've spent an inordinate amount of time playing with other such systems for keeping notes: [writing things in Baronfig notebooks](https://baronfig.com/products/confidant-hardcover-notebook?variant=35638867020), [Roam Research](https://roamresearch.com/), [Logseq](https://logseq.com/), and [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/) to name a few.
But Tiddlywiki hits the sweet spot of being 100% local and very customizable.
I think it's a [convivial tool](https://econation.one/blog/convivial-tools/).

Ultimately, though, what am I doing?
What's the point of any of this?

## Inspiration

I was inspired to write this post because of this [very cool post about making zines from piles of notes](https://dophs.substack.com/p/how-its-made).
I love reading process stories, seeing what other people do to make the interesting things they make.
My favorite part of this post is seeing all the paper notes, organized and indexed, and how it all flows from the author's phone to a journal, then on to an index card, then, finally, on to a zine.
I appreciate the orderliness.
I'm maybe even a bit jealous of that level of organization.

Do I need one of those, a system for writing things down, indexing them, and then flipping through them later?

If I did need one of those, [this article about how to get started with keeping a Zettelkasten](https://boffosocko.com/2022/06/10/reframing-and-simplifying-the-idea-of-how-to-keep-a-zettelkasten/) would be the way to go.
I love how it's centered more on the writing itself and less on the form.

You can read [this post by someone adopting the method](https://blog.viktomas.com/posts/slip-box/) and then [this post by the same person 16 months later and what has changed and what they've learned](https://blog.viktomas.com/posts/slip-box-after-a-year/).

You could be very grateful to [Writing Slowly](https://writingslowly.com/) for digging through [the top ten Zettelkasten posts on Hacker News so you don't have to](https://writingslowly.com/2023/05/21/i-read-the.html).
You could be *even more grateful* to read [Writing Slowly's very useful article on starting a zettelkasten](https://writingslowly.com/2024/03/06/how-to-start.html).

If you feel like crossing Tiddlywiki and zettelkastens you could [check out Soren Bjornstad's tiddlywiki zettelkasten](https://zettelkasten.sorenbjornstad.com/#PublicHomepage:PublicHomepage), which is a fun phrase to say a few times to yourself.

Or you could become a heretic and [read about antinet zettelkastens](https://www.scottscheper.com/fg).

## Counterpoint

[Julian Simpson](https://www.cartoongravity.com/) is a writer whose [work I've enjoyed very much](https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/p06spb8w).
He's been tinkering with lots of personal knowledge management apps, very publicly.
Recently, though, [he came to a realization](https://www.cartoongravity.com/a-realisation/):

> As I plunge into yet another notes app (UpNote this time, which is excellent), I am hit with the sudden realisation that this is the purest of pure procrastination...
>
> Maybe notes don't want to be indexed and Zettelkastened and back-linked. Maybe they want to just be filled out and worked on until they go from a spark to something actionable? Or they want to be left alone in the dark, to grow on their own, until someone stumbles over them again? Write the idea down and walk away. Maybe that is the key. Maybe serendipity is just flicking through those notes until something catches your eye?

## Where does that leave me, though?

Not making a zettelkasten, probably.
I kind of think of it like a spectator sport: I don't play it myself, but I sure do have fun learning about it and seeing other people do it.

Maybe it doesn't have a point.
My main creative output is *not* writing; mostly it's programs and music.
And maybe it's just an activity I enjoy and that's the end of it.

In that vein I bought a [Midori MD Notebook in an A6 size with a grid](https://www.jetpens.com/Midori-MD-Notebook-A6-Grid/pd/13604) for writing down quotes and things.
I'm trying to keep mundanity out of that notebook; no shopping lists or todo items or project management, just interesting tidbits about stuff I'm thinking about these days.
I think there is a certain magic to writing things with pens and I'm trying to type less these days, if I can help it.
