src/blog/webmentions-in-11ty.md, before:

---
title: Webmentions in Eleventy
description: Yet another post about how to do webmentions in eleventy.
date: 2023-08-30
draft: true
tags:
  - 11ty
  - text
  - webmentions
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
unlisted: true
---

There comes a time in every [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/) blog's life where the author must write a post about implementing webmentions. Here is mine.

There is so much prior art it's almost silly. In no particular order:

- [Max Böck's "Using Webmentions in Eleventy"](https://mxb.dev/blog/using-webmentions-on-static-sites/)
- [Sia Karamalegos' "An In-Depth Tutorial of Webmentions + Eleventy](https://sia.codes/posts/webmentions-eleventy-in-depth/)
  - I like the hand-drawn diagrams in this one.
- [Luke Bonaccorsi's "No comment: Adding Webmentions to my site](https://lukeb.co.uk/blog/2021/03/15/no-comment-adding-webmentions-to-my-site/) (Go for the info, stay for the 8-bit graphics)
- [Jan Monschke's "Adding webmentions to your static blog"](https://janmonschke.com/adding-webmentions-to-your-static-blog/)
  - Great diagrams in this one.
- [Sophie Koonin's "Building a website like it's 1999... in 2022"](https://localghost.dev/blog/building-a-website-like-it-s-1999-in-2022/)
- [Cory Dransfeldt's "Webmentions in Eleventy"](https://coryd.dev/posts/2023/webmentions-in-eleventy/)
- [Robb Knight's "Adding Webmentions to Your Site"](https://rknight.me/adding-webmentions-to-your-site/)
  - Robb has a follow-up post [with a ton more links](https://rknight.me/additional-webmention-resources/).
- [equilibriumuk's "Adding Webmentions in Eleventy"](https://equk.co.uk/2023/07/18/adding-webmentions-in-eleventy/)

That is all to say... seems like a solved problem. I'm not breaking new ground with anything I've done here.

I will say that it seems like most posts are focused on _receiving_ webmentions and I wish there were more resources on _sending_ webmentions. More on that below.

## Receiving webmentions

I set up 11ty to [fetch my webmentions as a global data file](https://github.com/drhayes/drhayes.io/blob/896febd9b465e2f7aa799a8ad78b18f139ca640e/src/data/webmentions.js):

```js
// Lifted almost entirely from: https://github.com/cdransf/coryd.dev/blob/2c64737f1fd97514f791178e59d07ad861370fbe/src/_data/webmentions.js
// Any changes or bugs are mine!
const EleventyFetch = require('@11ty/eleventy-fetch');

module.exports = async function () {
  const webmentionKey = process.env.WEBMENTION_IO_TOKEN;
  const url = `https://webmention.io/api/mentions.jf2?token=${webmentionKey}&per-page=1000`;
  try {
    const webmentions = await EleventyFetch(url, {
      duration: '1h',
      type: 'json',
    });
    return webmentions.children;
  } catch (e) {
    console.error('Error fetching webmentions', e);
    // Return a blank.
    return [];
  }
};
```

{% aside "Wait, what's a global data file?" %}

Eleventy has this thing called [the data cascade](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/data-cascade/). Eleventy gathers data from multiple sources before sending it to your template when it renders.

Here's a link to their documentation about global data files: <https://www.11ty.dev/docs/data-global/>

{% endaside %}

I'm using the `@11ty/eleventy-fetch` package so my builds don't yank on the webmention.io API too much during development; it caches responses. The `WEBMENTION_IO_TOKEN` is an environment variable that I have set in my local development so I can see webmentions in dev. It's also set as an environment variable in [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) when it builds my site.

So now all my templates have a `webmentions` variable available with data for the whole site. That's okay, but if I'm within the context of a single page I want to only show webmentions for that page.

Within my default template, I have this in an include named `webmentions.njk`:

{% raw %}

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markup
{% if webmentions %}
{% set mentions = webmentions | webmentionsByUrl(aliases) %}
... template stuff ...
{% endif %}
```

{% endraw %}

If I have webmentions, do some stuff. But not just "webmentions", but "webmentions for this page" using [the `webmentionsByUrl` filter](https://github.com/drhayes/drhayes.io/blob/8ac7266ee963325d874a214b1387e1764a715a42/lib/filters/webmentionsByUrl.js):

```js
function webmentionsByUrl(webmentions, aliases) {
  aliases = aliases || [];
  const data = {
    likes: [],
    reposts: [],
    replies: [],
  };

  if (!webmentions) {
    return data;
  }

  const forThisPage = webmentions
    .filter(isThisUrl(this.page.url, ...aliases))
    .filter(isValid)
    .map(transform);

  data.likes = forThisPage.filter(isLike);
  data.reposts = forThisPage.filter((m) => isRepost(m) || isMention(m));
  data.replies = forThisPage.filter(isReply);

  return data;
}
```

In order to figure out what webmentions I received for this page, I have to filter my webmentions by URL. Eleventy calls its filters [within a context that makes `this.page` available](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/data-eleventy-supplied/#feature-availability), which means I don't have to pass in the `page.url` when I invoke the filter. Kinda nice, but kinda magical. I'm not sure I like it yet.

Also, I do this thing where I can add an `aliases` key to my front matter and it'll add an entry into my `_redirects` file for Netlify for that file. If I do that, I don't want to lose any interactions on the previous page so I pass those aliases right in.

Here's the `isThisUrl` function:

```js
const isThisUrl =
  (...urls) =>
  (mention) =>
    urls.map((u) => `https://drhayes.io${u}`).includes(mention['wm-target']);
```

This is honestly stretching my limit for a "one-line" arrow function and will probably become a regular ol' function in the near future.

But we should probably talk about `wm-target` and all those other properties.

### What is the webmentions structure?

Here's the entire webmentions structure I received from webmention.io as of 2023-08-30. I only have a single interaction 😿 so far (I'll be okay). When my templates access `webmentions`, this is what they see:

```json
[
  {
    "type": "entry",
    "author": {
      "type": "card",
      "name": "Webmention Rocks!",
      "photo": "https://webmention.io/avatar/webmention.rocks/e08155b03da96cb1bdfd161ea24efdfad8d85d06afcee540ec246f1f613eb5a9.png",
      "url": ""
    },
    "url": "https://webmention.rocks/receive/1",
    "published": "2023-08-26T16:17:32",
    "wm-received": "2023-08-26T16:17:33Z",
    "wm-id": 1709428,
    "wm-source": "https://webmention.rocks/receive/1/f59a68e4d1fc23ca612411c9af3d93bb",
    "wm-target": "https://drhayes.io/writing/pretty-atom-feed/",
    "wm-protocol": "webmention",
    "name": "Receiver Test #1",
    "content": {
      "html": "<p>This test verifies that you accept a Webmention request that contains a valid source and target URL. To pass this test, your Webmention endpoint must return either HTTP 200, 201 or 202 along with the <a href=\"https://www.w3.org/TR/webmention/#receiving-webmentions\">appropriate headers</a>.</p>\n        <p>If your endpoint returns HTTP 201, then it MUST also return a <code>Location</code> header. If it returns HTTP 200 or 202, then it MUST NOT include a <code>Location</code> header.</p>",
      "text": "This test verifies that you accept a Webmention request that contains a valid source and target URL. To pass this test, your Webmention endpoint must return either HTTP 200, 201 or 202 along with the appropriate headers.\n        If your endpoint returns HTTP 201, then it MUST also return a Location header. If it returns HTTP 200 or 202, then it MUST NOT include a Location header."
    },
    "mention-of": "https://drhayes.io/writing/pretty-atom-feed/",
    "wm-property": "mention-of",
    "wm-private": false
  }
]
```

I received this by testing my implementation using [Webmention Rocks!](https://webmention.rocks/), in the "Testing your Receiver" section all the way at the bottom of the page. It sent a `mention-of` my way. Sort of.

Seeing this structure raised so many questions for me:

- I've got an array of objects that have `type: "entry"`. Are there other types? (I don't think so)
- Similarly, `author` is of `type: "card"`. Are there other types there? (I don't think so)
- The `wm-property` is named `mention-of`. That is the name of a property whose value (for this webmention) is: `"https://drhayes.io/writing/pretty-atom-feed/"`. Can that be different from `wm-target`? That'd be weird, what would that mean?
- What are valid values for `wm-property`? Are those specified anywhere? So far in others' code I've seen:
  - `in-reply-to`
  - `like-of`
  - `mention-of`
  - `repost-of`

I couldn't find answers to those questions in [the webmentions spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/webmention/) but that seems to mostly be about sending, not receiving. I mean, it _has_ [a section about receiving webmentions](https://www.w3.org/TR/webmention/#receiving-webmentions) but that doesn't seem super related to what webmention.io is sending me.

Turns out I should've been looking at the [README for the webmention.io project](https://github.com/aaronpk/webmention.io#api), duh! In addition to the properties I've seen it also includes `bookmark-of` (ooh!) and `rsvp` (ooooooh!). So that's neato.

I'm calling the service with a token but it looks like I don't need one in some cases. For instance: <https://webmention.io/api/mentions.jf2?target[]=https://drhayes.io/writing/pretty-atom-feed/> will return the webmentions for that particular URL only. If I were working client-side that might be perfect -- no exposed token that way. And [it looks like you can receive data for multiple pages that way](https://github.com/aaronpk/webmention.io#find-links-to-multiple-pages), so that's something to keep in your back pocket.

For more answers about the `type` fields, I turned to <http://microformats.org/wiki/jf2>. It seems like the `type` params are the suffixes of the various microformat objects. [The jf2 spec backs me up on that one](https://jf2.spec.indieweb.org/#reservedproperties). Hooray for reading comprehension!

I am _super glad_ that Aaron Parecki is, apparently, running this for the good of the community. Since Netlify has edge functions, though, I wonder if I could get something running to handle my own webmentions just in case.

## Caching

One thing I noticed in a couple of implementations is they would cache the results returned from webmention.io.

- [Here's Sia Karamalegos with a code snippet.](https://sia.codes/posts/webmentions-eleventy-in-depth/#step-3%3A-fetch-webmentions-during-the-eleventy-build)
- [Here's Robb Knight's API doing it.](https://github.com/rknightuk/api/blob/e79de4d38faec461092fab88a4cc2e32a7d29345/services/webmentions.js)
- [Here's Sophie Koonin's site doing it.](https://github.com/sophiekoonin/localghost/blob/37b4fcb59e4b13032888fd84268837a8c68e28cd/src/_data/webmentions.js)

I'm interested! Especially if webmention.io ever goes down, then **poof** go all my webmentions. When developing locally I'm entirely dependent on [11ty/eleventy-fetch](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-fetch) caching things on my computer while I'm messing around with my site; that's good enough for the short term. But I'm at a loss, longer term.

Netlify builds my site, so I could cache them up there I guess? I found a couple of utilities to handle something like that for me:

- https://www.npmjs.com/package/@netlify/cache-utils
- https://www.npmjs.com/package/netlify-plugin-cache

...but that's not really what I'm thinking of -- I don't want them available for the _next build_, I want them available _for the life of the site_. And I _think_ I'm okay with Eleventy's fetch cache disappearing from build to build. At least I am until I notice all my webmentions are gone, I guess.

But webmention.io has been around a very long time, so it's probably okay to kick that can further down the road. Maybe something like pulling the webmentions, writing them to disk, and re-checking them into the git repo so the site can rebuild without the site being live. Future project, maybe.

## Sending

My site is now listening for webmentions and will display any that it gets in [a timely fashion](https://github.com/drhayes/drhayes.io/blob/005ae457014cfd48b95784127581f8feaf22e6c3/.github/workflows/deploy-on-cron.yml) thanks to GitHub workflows and [a `23 */2 * * *` cron expression](https://crontab.guru/#23_*/2_*_*_*).

I'd really like it if my site could _send_ or _publish_ webmentions as well: every time I link to another page it'd be great if the other person knew I was giving them credit for the work they've done.

The inimitable [Remy Sharp](https://remysharp.com/) has done it again and created **yet another** incredibly useful tool, [webmention.app](https://www.webmention.app/).

{% aside "A note on webmention.app" %}
When I first visited the site I kept getting a 404 and thought it was gone. It turns out that navigating to "https://webmention.app" will get you a 404. Navigating to <https://www.webmention.app/> will get you the app. Note the **`www`**!

Although, occasionally, [Vercel does knock his sites off the web](https://remysharp.com/2023/01/30/on-vercel-if-some-of-my-sites-are-down) so it could legit be down.
{% endaside %}

Lots of sites recommend using webmention.app and calling it a day. But I like to ice skate uphill, so I dug in a bit and found [CodeFoodPixels/netlify-plugin-webmentions](https://github.com/CodeFoodPixels/netlify-plugin-webmentions)! It actually uses `@remy/webmention` as a library (the same code that powers webmention.app) but runs "locally" in the build at Netlify. Nice! By default it searches the most recent post based on the feed for your site.

But, apparently, [brid.gy will also do publishing?](https://brid.gy/about#publish) All I'd need to do there is [send brid.gy a webmention](https://brid.gy/about#webmentions) (we must go deeper) and they'd scan my post looking for mention-able things. But how would I know which posts to tell brid.gy about?

While both of these would work they're not quite satisfying. What if I change something _other_ than the most recent post

Commit message:

More webmentions post work.
Thinking about posting to brid.gy on build.

src/blog/webmentions-in-11ty.md, after:

---
title: Webmentions in Eleventy
description: Yet another post about how to do webmentions in eleventy.
date: 2023-08-30
draft: true
tags:
  - 11ty
  - text
  - webmentions
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
unlisted: true
---

There comes a time in every [Eleventy](https://www.11ty.dev/) blog's life where the author must write a post about implementing webmentions. Here is mine.

There is so much prior art it's almost silly. In no particular order:

- [Max Böck's "Using Webmentions in Eleventy"](https://mxb.dev/blog/using-webmentions-on-static-sites/)
- [Sia Karamalegos' "An In-Depth Tutorial of Webmentions + Eleventy](https://sia.codes/posts/webmentions-eleventy-in-depth/)
  - I like the hand-drawn diagrams in this one.
- [Luke Bonaccorsi's "No comment: Adding Webmentions to my site](https://lukeb.co.uk/blog/2021/03/15/no-comment-adding-webmentions-to-my-site/) (Go for the info, stay for the 8-bit graphics)
- [Jan Monschke's "Adding webmentions to your static blog"](https://janmonschke.com/adding-webmentions-to-your-static-blog/)
  - Great diagrams in this one.
- [Sophie Koonin's "Building a website like it's 1999... in 2022"](https://localghost.dev/blog/building-a-website-like-it-s-1999-in-2022/)
- [Cory Dransfeldt's "Webmentions in Eleventy"](https://coryd.dev/posts/2023/webmentions-in-eleventy/)
- [Robb Knight's "Adding Webmentions to Your Site"](https://rknight.me/adding-webmentions-to-your-site/)
  - Robb has a follow-up post [with a ton more links](https://rknight.me/additional-webmention-resources/).
- [equilibriumuk's "Adding Webmentions in Eleventy"](https://equk.co.uk/2023/07/18/adding-webmentions-in-eleventy/)

That is all to say... seems like a solved problem. I'm not breaking new ground with anything I've done here.

I will say that it seems like most posts are focused on _receiving_ webmentions and I wish there were more resources on _sending_ webmentions. More on that below.

## Receiving webmentions

I set up 11ty to [fetch my webmentions as a global data file](https://github.com/drhayes/drhayes.io/blob/896febd9b465e2f7aa799a8ad78b18f139ca640e/src/data/webmentions.js):

```js
// Lifted almost entirely from: https://github.com/cdransf/coryd.dev/blob/2c64737f1fd97514f791178e59d07ad861370fbe/src/_data/webmentions.js
// Any changes or bugs are mine!
const EleventyFetch = require('@11ty/eleventy-fetch');

module.exports = async function () {
  const webmentionKey = process.env.WEBMENTION_IO_TOKEN;
  const url = `https://webmention.io/api/mentions.jf2?token=${webmentionKey}&per-page=1000`;
  try {
    const webmentions = await EleventyFetch(url, {
      duration: '1h',
      type: 'json',
    });
    return webmentions.children;
  } catch (e) {
    console.error('Error fetching webmentions', e);
    // Return a blank.
    return [];
  }
};
```

{% aside "Wait, what's a global data file?" %}

Eleventy has this thing called [the data cascade](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/data-cascade/). Eleventy gathers data from multiple sources before sending it to your template when it renders.

Here's a link to their documentation about global data files: <https://www.11ty.dev/docs/data-global/>

{% endaside %}

I'm using the `@11ty/eleventy-fetch` package so my builds don't yank on the webmention.io API too much during development; it caches responses. The `WEBMENTION_IO_TOKEN` is an environment variable that I have set in my local development so I can see webmentions in dev. It's also set as an environment variable in [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/) when it builds my site.

So now all my templates have a `webmentions` variable available with data for the whole site. That's okay, but if I'm within the context of a single page I want to only show webmentions for that page.

Within my default template, I have this in an include named `webmentions.njk`:

{% raw %}

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```markup
{% if webmentions %}
{% set mentions = webmentions | webmentionsByUrl(aliases) %}
... template stuff ...
{% endif %}
```

{% endraw %}

If I have webmentions, do some stuff. But not just "webmentions", but "webmentions for this page" using [the `webmentionsByUrl` filter](https://github.com/drhayes/drhayes.io/blob/8ac7266ee963325d874a214b1387e1764a715a42/lib/filters/webmentionsByUrl.js):

```js
function webmentionsByUrl(webmentions, aliases) {
  aliases = aliases || [];
  const data = {
    likes: [],
    reposts: [],
    replies: [],
  };

  if (!webmentions) {
    return data;
  }

  const forThisPage = webmentions
    .filter(isThisUrl(this.page.url, ...aliases))
    .filter(isValid)
    .map(transform);

  data.likes = forThisPage.filter(isLike);
  data.reposts = forThisPage.filter((m) => isRepost(m) || isMention(m));
  data.replies = forThisPage.filter(isReply);

  return data;
}
```

In order to figure out what webmentions I received for this page, I have to filter my webmentions by URL. Eleventy calls its filters [within a context that makes `this.page` available](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/data-eleventy-supplied/#feature-availability), which means I don't have to pass in the `page.url` when I invoke the filter. Kinda nice, but kinda magical. I'm not sure I like it yet.

Also, I do this thing where I can add an `aliases` key to my front matter and it'll add an entry into my `_redirects` file for Netlify for that file. If I do that, I don't want to lose any interactions on the previous page so I pass those aliases right in.

Here's the `isThisUrl` function:

```js
const isThisUrl =
  (...urls) =>
  (mention) =>
    urls.map((u) => `https://drhayes.io${u}`).includes(mention['wm-target']);
```

This is honestly stretching my limit for a "one-line" arrow function and will probably become a regular ol' function in the near future.

But we should probably talk about `wm-target` and all those other properties.

### What is the webmentions structure?

Here's the entire webmentions structure I received from webmention.io as of 2023-08-30. I only have a single interaction 😿 so far (I'll be okay). When my templates access `webmentions`, this is what they see:

```json
[
  {
    "type": "entry",
    "author": {
      "type": "card",
      "name": "Webmention Rocks!",
      "photo": "https://webmention.io/avatar/webmention.rocks/e08155b03da96cb1bdfd161ea24efdfad8d85d06afcee540ec246f1f613eb5a9.png",
      "url": ""
    },
    "url": "https://webmention.rocks/receive/1",
    "published": "2023-08-26T16:17:32",
    "wm-received": "2023-08-26T16:17:33Z",
    "wm-id": 1709428,
    "wm-source": "https://webmention.rocks/receive/1/f59a68e4d1fc23ca612411c9af3d93bb",
    "wm-target": "https://drhayes.io/writing/pretty-atom-feed/",
    "wm-protocol": "webmention",
    "name": "Receiver Test #1",
    "content": {
      "html": "<p>This test verifies that you accept a Webmention request that contains a valid source and target URL. To pass this test, your Webmention endpoint must return either HTTP 200, 201 or 202 along with the <a href=\"https://www.w3.org/TR/webmention/#receiving-webmentions\">appropriate headers</a>.</p>\n        <p>If your endpoint returns HTTP 201, then it MUST also return a <code>Location</code> header. If it returns HTTP 200 or 202, then it MUST NOT include a <code>Location</code> header.</p>",
      "text": "This test verifies that you accept a Webmention request that contains a valid source and target URL. To pass this test, your Webmention endpoint must return either HTTP 200, 201 or 202 along with the appropriate headers.\n        If your endpoint returns HTTP 201, then it MUST also return a Location header. If it returns HTTP 200 or 202, then it MUST NOT include a Location header."
    },
    "mention-of": "https://drhayes.io/writing/pretty-atom-feed/",
    "wm-property": "mention-of",
    "wm-private": false
  }
]
```

I received this by testing my implementation using [Webmention Rocks!](https://webmention.rocks/), in the "Testing your Receiver" section all the way at the bottom of the page. It sent a `mention-of` my way. Sort of.

Seeing this structure raised so many questions for me:

- I've got an array of objects that have `type: "entry"`. Are there other types? (I don't think so)
- Similarly, `author` is of `type: "card"`. Are there other types there? (I don't think so)
- The `wm-property` is named `mention-of`. That is the name of a property whose value (for this webmention) is: `"https://drhayes.io/writing/pretty-atom-feed/"`. Can that be different from `wm-target`? That'd be weird, what would that mean?
- What are valid values for `wm-property`? Are those specified anywhere? So far in others' code I've seen:
  - `in-reply-to`
  - `like-of`
  - `mention-of`
  - `repost-of`

I couldn't find answers to those questions in [the webmentions spec](https://www.w3.org/TR/webmention/) but that seems to mostly be about sending, not receiving. I mean, it _has_ [a section about receiving webmentions](https://www.w3.org/TR/webmention/#receiving-webmentions) but that doesn't seem super related to what webmention.io is sending me.

Turns out I should've been looking at the [README for the webmention.io project](https://github.com/aaronpk/webmention.io#api), duh! In addition to the properties I've seen it also includes `bookmark-of` (ooh!) and `rsvp` (ooooooh!). So that's neato.

I'm calling the service with a token but it looks like I don't need one in some cases. For instance: <https://webmention.io/api/mentions.jf2?target[]=https://drhayes.io/writing/pretty-atom-feed/> will return the webmentions for that particular URL only. If I were working client-side that might be perfect -- no exposed token that way. And [it looks like you can receive data for multiple pages that way](https://github.com/aaronpk/webmention.io#find-links-to-multiple-pages), so that's something to keep in your back pocket.

For more answers about the `type` fields, I turned to <http://microformats.org/wiki/jf2>. It seems like the `type` params are the suffixes of the various microformat objects. [The jf2 spec backs me up on that one](https://jf2.spec.indieweb.org/#reservedproperties). Hooray for reading comprehension!

I am _super glad_ that Aaron Parecki is, apparently, running this for the good of the community. Since Netlify has edge functions, though, I wonder if I could get something running to handle my own webmentions just in case.

## Caching

One thing I noticed in a couple of implementations is they would cache the results returned from webmention.io.

- [Here's Sia Karamalegos with a code snippet.](https://sia.codes/posts/webmentions-eleventy-in-depth/#step-3%3A-fetch-webmentions-during-the-eleventy-build)
- [Here's Robb Knight's API doing it.](https://github.com/rknightuk/api/blob/e79de4d38faec461092fab88a4cc2e32a7d29345/services/webmentions.js)
- [Here's Sophie Koonin's site doing it.](https://github.com/sophiekoonin/localghost/blob/37b4fcb59e4b13032888fd84268837a8c68e28cd/src/_data/webmentions.js)

I'm interested! Especially if webmention.io ever goes down, then **poof** go all my webmentions. When developing locally I'm entirely dependent on [11ty/eleventy-fetch](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-fetch) caching things on my computer while I'm messing around with my site; that's good enough for the short term. But I'm at a loss, longer term.

Netlify builds my site, so I could cache them up there I guess? I found a couple of utilities to handle something like that for me:

- https://www.npmjs.com/package/@netlify/cache-utils
- https://www.npmjs.com/package/netlify-plugin-cache

...but that's not really what I'm thinking of -- I don't want them available for the _next build_, I want them available _for the life of the site_. And I _think_ I'm okay with Eleventy's fetch cache disappearing from build to build. At least I am until I notice all my webmentions are gone, I guess.

But webmention.io has been around a very long time, so it's probably okay to kick that can further down the road. Maybe something like pulling the webmentions, writing them to disk, and re-checking them into the git repo so the site can rebuild without the site being live. Future project, maybe.

## Sending

My site is now listening for webmentions and will display any that it gets in [a timely fashion](https://github.com/drhayes/drhayes.io/blob/005ae457014cfd48b95784127581f8feaf22e6c3/.github/workflows/deploy-on-cron.yml) thanks to GitHub workflows and [a `23 */2 * * *` cron expression](https://crontab.guru/#23_*/2_*_*_*).

I'd really like it if my site could _send_ or _publish_ webmentions as well: every time I link to another page it'd be great if the other person knew I was giving them credit for the work they've done.

The inimitable [Remy Sharp](https://remysharp.com/) has done it again and created **yet another** incredibly useful tool, [webmention.app](https://www.webmention.app/).

{% aside "A note on webmention.app" %}
When I first visited the site I kept getting a 404 and thought it was gone. It turns out that navigating to "https://webmention.app" will get you a 404. Navigating to <https://www.webmention.app/> will get you the app. Note the **`www`**! Naked domains are a killer, I guess.

Although, occasionally, [Vercel does knock his sites off the web](https://remysharp.com/2023/01/30/on-vercel-if-some-of-my-sites-are-down) so it could legit be down.
{% endaside %}

Lots of sites recommend using webmention.app and calling it a day. But I like to ice skate uphill, so I dug in a bit and found [CodeFoodPixels/netlify-plugin-webmentions](https://github.com/CodeFoodPixels/netlify-plugin-webmentions)! It actually uses `@remy/webmention` as a library (the same code that powers webmention.app) but runs "locally" in the build at Netlify. Nice! By default it searches the most recent post based on the feed for your site.

But, apparently, [brid.gy will also do publishing?](https://brid.gy/about#publish) All I'd need to do there is [send brid.gy a webmention](https://brid.gy/about#webmentions) (we must go deeper) and they'd scan my post looking for mention-able things. But how would I know which posts to tell brid.gy about?

While both of these would work they're not quite satisfying. What if I change something _other_ than the most recent post on my site? I _try_ to keep my `updated` frontmatter... well, _updated_. Is that good enough? [Maybe it's not perfect, but that's okay.](/principles/perfect-is-the-enemy-of-good/)

But... I _also_ don't want to send webmentions for things every time I build my site if I've already sent webmentions. I am _forever_ tinkering with my site. I'd hate to keep blasting out webmentions for a blog post because I'm tweaking colors. I'm much less sure of how to do that if I don't save the last updated date somewhere.
