src/notes/words.md, before:

---
title: Words
---
Interesting words that I've found here and there and wanted to save somewhere.

## The Words

__aposematism__
The advertising by an animal to potential predators that it is not worth attacking or eating.

__adomania__
The sense that the future is coming too quickly.

__aleatory__
Dependent on chance.

__anamnesis__
Psychology A recalling to memory; recollection. In philosophy, It is the idea that humans possess knowledge from past https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reincarnations and that learning consists of rediscovering that knowledge within us.

__anecdoche__
A conversation where no one is listening.

__apricus__
Exposed to sunlight.

__atimos__
Greek. "Without honor or value".

__caliginous__
Affected with darkness or dimness.

__cenotaph__
A tomblike monument to someone buried elsewhere, especially one commemorating people who died in a war.

__hiraeth__
Welsh word that literally translates into English as 'longing', though in Welsh the concept of yearning for a place removed in space or time is far more powerful and evocative than in English.

__hypocorism__
Diminutive form of a name. Also, "hypocoristicon".

__kairosclerosis__
The moment when you realize you're happy.

__keleustes__
From Greek triremes — "responsible for the training and morale of the crew".

__kopfkino__
Literally, "head cinema. When something in your sensory field sets off a movie inside your head, whether pleasant or unpleasant.

__monachopsis__
The subtle persisting sense of being out of place.

__noctilucous__
Shining in the night.

__noctivagant__
Walking in the night-time.

__opia__
The ambiguous intensity from looking someone in the eye.

__pentekontarchos__
From Greek triremes, "commander of the fifty".

__peregrination__
Journey, sojourn.

__rubatosis__
The unsettling awareness of your heartbeat.

__rufescent__
Reddish in hue, tinged in red.

__sonder__
The realization that each random passerby is living a life as vivid and complex as your own.

__vellichor__
The strange wistfulness of used book stores.

__vicissitude__
Regular change (day and night) and irregular change (vicissitudes of fortune).

__xanthodontous__
Having yellowed teeth

__youstering__
Festering.

__zenosyne__
The sense that time keeps going faster.

Commit message:

Add a couple of words.
Add an "updated" section to the note template.

src/notes/words.md, after:

---
title: Words
updated: 2020-08-07
---
Interesting words that I've found here and there and wanted to save somewhere.

## The Words

__aposematism__
The advertising by an animal to potential predators that it is not worth attacking or eating.

__adomania__
The sense that the future is coming too quickly.

__aleatory__
Dependent on chance.

__anamnesis__
Psychology A recalling to memory; recollection. In philosophy, It is the idea that humans possess knowledge from past https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reincarnations and that learning consists of rediscovering that knowledge within us.

__anecdoche__
A conversation where no one is listening.

__apricus__
Exposed to sunlight.

__atimos__
Greek. "Without honor or value".

__caliginous__
Affected with darkness or dimness.

__cenotaph__
A tomblike monument to someone buried elsewhere, especially one commemorating people who died in a war.

__conation__
The aspect of mental processes or behavior directed toward action or change and including impulse, desire, volition, and striving.

__drogulus__
An entity whose presence is unverifiable, because it has no physical effects.

__hiraeth__
Welsh word that literally translates into English as 'longing', though in Welsh the concept of yearning for a place removed in space or time is far more powerful and evocative than in English.

__hypocorism__
Diminutive form of a name. Also, "hypocoristicon".

__kairosclerosis__
The moment when you realize you're happy.

__keleustes__
From Greek triremes — "responsible for the training and morale of the crew".

__kopfkino__
Literally, "head cinema. When something in your sensory field sets off a movie inside your head, whether pleasant or unpleasant.

__monachopsis__
The subtle persisting sense of being out of place.

__noctilucous__
Shining in the night.

__noctivagant__
Walking in the night-time.

__opia__
The ambiguous intensity from looking someone in the eye.

__pentekontarchos__
From Greek triremes, "commander of the fifty".

__peregrination__
Journey, sojourn.

__rubatosis__
The unsettling awareness of your heartbeat.

__rufescent__
Reddish in hue, tinged in red.

__sonder__
The realization that each random passerby is living a life as vivid and complex as your own.

__vellichor__
The strange wistfulness of used book stores.

__vicissitude__
Regular change (day and night) and irregular change (vicissitudes of fortune).

__xanthodontous__
Having yellowed teeth

__youstering__
Festering.

__zenosyne__
The sense that time keeps going faster.
