src/about.md, before:

---
title: Hi. I'm David. 👋🏽
description: What I'm all about, yo.
priority: 1.0
updated: 2022-06-08
---

<div class="about-logo">
  {% include "raven.svg" %}
</div>

I do stuff with computers. I live in Austin, TX.

I'm a dad. I've always loved short, clever jokes, but now I have an excuse for my tastes.

I'm particularly interested in everything game (board and digital and role-playing), plain text formats, productivity, and knowledge-management.

I'm a musician. I've played the piano since I was very young, and I very much like making music with things that look like [trackers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Music_tracker).

I like keyboards that make too much noise, especially ergodox keyboards.

## Contact Me

I can be found pretty much everywhere fine Internets are made as `drhayes` or some variation.

In particular, you can email me at <hi@drhayes.io> or [chat me at my Keybase chat][keybasechat] or [at my Telegram address you weirdo][telegram].

Here are some likely haunts:

- {% meLink 'https://github.com/drhayes', 'github.com/drhayes' %}
- {% meLink 'https://pinboard.in/u:drhayes', 'Pinboard' %}
- {% meLink 'https://indieweb.social/@drhayes', '@drhayes@indieweb.social' %}
- {% meLink 'https://social.lol/@drhayes', 'drhayes@social.lol' %}
- {% meLink 'https://soundcloud.com/drhayes', 'Soundcloud' %}
- {% meLink 'https://keybase.io/drhayes', 'Keybase' %}
- {% meLink 'https://drhayes.tumblr.com', 'Tumblr' %}
- {% meLink 'https://www.goodreads.com/drhayes', 'Goodreads' %}

## Colophon

This site is generated in [Eleventy].

- [Here is the site's git repository.][site]
- [neovim] is where the typing happens.
- [Markdown] has the content.
- [GitHub] hosts the code.
- [Netlify] hosts the site.
- The color palette is mostly [cobalt2].

[site]: https://github.com/drhayes/drhayes.io
[vim]: https://www.vim.org/
[markdown]: https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[github]: https://github.com/
[netlify]: https://www.netlify.com/
[telegram]: https://t.me/drhayes
[keybasechat]: https://keybase.io/drhayes/chat
[eleventy]: https://www.11ty.dev/
[neovim]: https://neovim.io/
[cobalt2]: https://wesbos.com/cobalt2-theme-sublime-text-2

Commit message:

Add the public inbox thing.

src/about.md, after:

---
title: Hi. I'm David. 👋🏽
description: What I'm all about, yo.
priority: 1.0
updated: 2022-06-08
---

<div class="about-logo">
  {% include "raven.svg" %}
</div>

I do stuff with computers. I live in Austin, TX.

I'm a dad. I've always loved short, clever jokes, but now I have an excuse for my tastes.

I'm particularly interested in everything game (board and digital and role-playing), plain text formats, productivity, and knowledge-management.

I'm a musician. I've played the piano since I was very young, and I very much like making music with things that look like [trackers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Music_tracker).

I like keyboards that make too much noise, especially ergodox keyboards.

## Contact Me

I can be found pretty much everywhere fine Internets are made as `drhayes` or some variation.

In particular, you can email me at <hi@drhayes.io> or [chat me at my Keybase chat][keybasechat] or [at my Telegram address you weirdo][telegram].

You could also use my [public inbox](https://lists.sr.ht/~drhayes/public-inbox) or email me at <~drhayes/public-inbox@lists.sr.ht> to get a post started.

Here are some likely haunts:

- {% meLink 'https://github.com/drhayes', 'github.com/drhayes' %}
- {% meLink 'https://pinboard.in/u:drhayes', 'Pinboard' %}
- {% meLink 'https://indieweb.social/@drhayes', '@drhayes@indieweb.social' %}
- {% meLink 'https://social.lol/@drhayes', 'drhayes@social.lol' %}
- {% meLink 'https://soundcloud.com/drhayes', 'Soundcloud' %}
- {% meLink 'https://keybase.io/drhayes', 'Keybase' %}
- {% meLink 'https://drhayes.tumblr.com', 'Tumblr' %}
- {% meLink 'https://www.goodreads.com/drhayes', 'Goodreads' %}

## Colophon

This site is generated in [Eleventy].

- [Here is the site's git repository.][site]
- [neovim] is where the typing happens.
- [Markdown] has the content.
- [GitHub] hosts the code.
- [Netlify] hosts the site.
- The color palette is mostly [cobalt2].

[site]: https://github.com/drhayes/drhayes.io
[vim]: https://www.vim.org/
[markdown]: https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/
[github]: https://github.com/
[netlify]: https://www.netlify.com/
[telegram]: https://t.me/drhayes
[keybasechat]: https://keybase.io/drhayes/chat
[eleventy]: https://www.11ty.dev/
[neovim]: https://neovim.io/
[cobalt2]: https://wesbos.com/cobalt2-theme-sublime-text-2
