src/now.md, before:

---
title: Now
description: What am I doing right now.
layout: page.njk
updated: 2020-11-17
---

What I'm doing right now.

## Text

Getting into habit of updating site with notes and things. Thinking about microblogging.

Check out my [Projects][] note.

## Gamedev

* Thinking about the name for the UI project... Some play on the UI thing, of course. Squiggle?
* Still thinking about next game project. Candidates:
  - Typing game
    + Wizards shooting spaceships to save the Earth!
  - Match 3
  - Top-down stealth thing maybe?

## Digital Games

* I'm basically playing no video games right now. Ugh.

## Role-playing Games

* [The Dracula Dossier][dracula] is very fun. We're in Europe. Close to Drac I think. Scary.
* I think my [Shadow of the Demon Lord][sotdl] game is dead. I don't blame the system, I blame me.
* Playing in a [Masks][] campaign with Internet strangers! A curated [Magpie][] game turned campaign. It's going great! Talk to me about the between-game vignettes.

## Teaching

Need to write more about what how my teaching is going.

## Programming

Mostly Terraform at work. Mostly JavaScript at home as I poke at my personal site and a notes system. Lua for anything gamedev-y, but I'm eyeing Rust.

## Music

Lately.

* Com Truise.
* Angel Olsen.
* Daniel Deluxe.

Always.

* [Carpenter Brut][carpenterbrut] - Basically everything
* [Makeup and Vanity Set][mavs] - Basically everything
* [ACTORS - It Will Come To You][actors]
* [KANGA - Eternal Daughter and Kanga][kanga] (but, also, basically everything)
* [Blanck Mass][BlanckMass]

Occasionally.

* Dance with the Dead
* Holy Fuck
* Perturbator



[projects]: /notes/projects
[Squeak]: https://github.com/drhayes/squeak.lua/
[Carrion]: https://carrion.game/
[liads]: http://www.loversinadangerousspacetime.com/
[minecraft]: https://minecraft.net
[ShovelKnight]: https://yachtclubgames.com/shovel-knight/
[shovel-knight-by-david-l-craddock]: https://bossfightbooks.com/products/shovel-knight-by-david-l-craddock
[dracula]: https://site.pelgranepress.com/index.php/the-dracula-dossier/
[sotdl]: https://schwalbentertainment.com/shadow-of-the-demon-lord/
[Masks]: https://www.magpiegames.com/masks/
[magpie]: https://www.magpiegames.com/
[SistersOfMercy]: http://www.the-sisters-of-mercy.com/
[carpenterbrut]: http://www.carpenterbrut.com/
[mavs]: https://www.makeupandvanityset.com/
[actors]: https://www.actorstheband.com/
[kanga]: https://kanga.bandcamp.com/
[BlanckMass]: https://www.blanckmass.com/
[nba]: https://site.pelgranepress.com/index.php/nights-black-agents/
[botw]: https://www.zelda.com/breath-of-the-wild/
[urban]: https://www.magpiegames.com/urban-shadows/
[GenericPlatformer]: /games/generic-platformer

Commit message:

Better date processing on notes.
A bibliography-aware template.

src/now.md, after:

---
title: Now
description: What am I doing right now.
layout: page.njk
updated: 2020-11-17
---

What I'm doing right now.

## Text

Getting into habit of updating site with notes and things.

Doing a decent job of updating Now and [Projects][]. Not doing as good a job at tending to my notes. Trying to carefully read [How to Take Smart Notes][smartnotes]

Check out my [Projects][] note.

## Gamedev

* Thinking about the name for the UI project... Some play on the UI thing, of course. Squiggle?
* Still thinking about next game project. Candidates:
  - Typing game
    + Wizards shooting spaceships to save the Earth!
  - Match 3
  - Top-down stealth thing maybe?

## Digital Games

* I'm basically playing no video games right now. Ugh.

## Role-playing Games

* [The Dracula Dossier][dracula] is very fun. We're in Europe. Close to Drac I think. Scary.
* I think my [Shadow of the Demon Lord][sotdl] game is dead. I don't blame the system, I blame me.
* Playing in a [Masks][] campaign with Internet strangers! A curated [Magpie][] game turned campaign. It's going great! Talk to me about the between-game vignettes.

## Teaching

Need to write more about what how my teaching is going.

## Programming

Mostly Terraform at work. Mostly JavaScript at home as I poke at my personal site and a notes system. Lua for anything gamedev-y, but I'm eyeing Rust.

## Music

Lately.

* Com Truise.
* Angel Olsen.
* Daniel Deluxe.

Always.

* [Carpenter Brut][carpenterbrut] - Basically everything
* [Makeup and Vanity Set][mavs] - Basically everything
* [ACTORS - It Will Come To You][actors]
* [KANGA - Eternal Daughter and Kanga][kanga] (but, also, basically everything)
* [Blanck Mass][BlanckMass]

Occasionally.

* Dance with the Dead
* Holy Fuck
* Perturbator



[projects]: /notes/projects
[Squeak]: https://github.com/drhayes/squeak.lua/
[Carrion]: https://carrion.game/
[liads]: http://www.loversinadangerousspacetime.com/
[minecraft]: https://minecraft.net
[ShovelKnight]: https://yachtclubgames.com/shovel-knight/
[shovel-knight-by-david-l-craddock]: https://bossfightbooks.com/products/shovel-knight-by-david-l-craddock
[dracula]: https://site.pelgranepress.com/index.php/the-dracula-dossier/
[sotdl]: https://schwalbentertainment.com/shadow-of-the-demon-lord/
[Masks]: https://www.magpiegames.com/masks/
[magpie]: https://www.magpiegames.com/
[SistersOfMercy]: http://www.the-sisters-of-mercy.com/
[carpenterbrut]: http://www.carpenterbrut.com/
[mavs]: https://www.makeupandvanityset.com/
[actors]: https://www.actorstheband.com/
[kanga]: https://kanga.bandcamp.com/
[BlanckMass]: https://www.blanckmass.com/
[nba]: https://site.pelgranepress.com/index.php/nights-black-agents/
[botw]: https://www.zelda.com/breath-of-the-wild/
[urban]: https://www.magpiegames.com/urban-shadows/
[GenericPlatformer]: /games/generic-platformer
[smartnotes]: /notes/bibliography/how-to-take-smart-notes/
