src/uses.md, before:

---
title: What I Use
description: The stuff I use to get what I need to do done.
date: 2023-09-13
---

Inspired by [Wes Bos' /uses page](https://wesbos.com/uses) and [the whole host of other /uses pages out there](https://uses.tech/) I present: the things I use!

{% aside "No affiliate links!" %}
None of the links here are meant to be affiliate links. If any end up being affiliate links that is a mistake on my part and I'd love to hear about it.
{% endaside %}

## Editor and Terminal

- [Neovim](https://neovim.io/) is my text editor. I try to stay familiar with all of them, but this is my go-to.
  - Before that I was mostly a [Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/) kind of person.
  - I mostly only used [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) under a kind of duress, since I get frustrated with Electron apps pretty easily.
- [Here is my Neovim config](https://github.com/drhayes/neovim-config/), which is mostly based on [LazyVim](https://www.lazyvim.org/).
- [Berkeley Mono](https://berkeleygraphics.com/typefaces/berkeley-mono/) is my current favorite programming font.
  - Before that I used [Inconsolata](https://www.levien.com/type/myfonts/inconsolata.html). I might switch back, who knows.
- [kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/) is my terminal of choice.
  - I'm starting to wonder if I should start using [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux) instead, since so many of the kitty features I like are in tmux as well as some others I might find handy.
- My shell of choice is [fish](https://fishshell.com/). I greatly enjoy the highlighting, the interactivity, and the sensible scripting.
  - Most of my customizations are in [my drfish repo](https://github.com/drhayes/drfish).
  - I _feel_ like [ghclone](https://github.com/drhayes/drfish/blob/70668defbb44b39495eea28dc4b31acc935bcb0c/functions/ghclone.fish) is my most useful function.
  - I sure use the heck out of my `cd*` functions, though.
  - Check out my incomplete attempt to make a [system setup script](https://github.com/drhayes/drfish/blob/70668defbb44b39495eea28dc4b31acc935bcb0c/functions/drenv-setup.fish)!

## Desktop

### Hardware and Desk

- My desktop machine is a [System76 Thelio](https://system76.com/desktops/thelio).
- I'm using a [Ergodox EZ](https://ergodox-ez.com/) keyboard.
  - I'm switching to a [Moonlander](https://www.zsa.io/moonlander/) very soon, just waiting on shipment.
- Currently mousing with the [Kensington Expert Mouse Wireless Trackball](https://www.kensington.com/p/products/ergonomic-desk-accessories/ergonomic-input-devices/expert-mouse-wireless-trackball-1/).
  - I've used nearly every kind of trackball and non-mouse mouse in my quest for a pain-free computer experience. Happy to provide opinions if asked!
- My monitor is a LG 32UD99-W 32-Inch 4K UHD IPS Monitor. Only one monitor right now, the window manager makes multiple workspaces easy. Big enough that I enjoy the resolutions when I want them, but not so large that it blocks my window.
- I've got a [Yeti Blue](https://www.logitechg.com/en-us/products/streaming-gear/yeti-premium-usb-microphone.988-000100.html) as my mic.
- I use a Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920x. I believe the most updated version is the "C920s".
- Everything is on a [Fully](https://fully.com/) standing desk, the [Jarvis contour desk](https://store.hermanmiller.com/standing-desks/jarvis-bamboo-standing-desk/2542428.html?lang=en_US) at 48" wide with programmable height adjustment.
  - I stand to do any serious kind of typing work, about 80% of any given day.
- My chair is a no-name display model I bought used at Office Depot; no arms and surprisingly un-cat-scratched.
  - I'm using [these game-changer chair wheels](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01CTIG4GE/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_search_asin_title?ie=UTF8&psc=1) and have transferred them from three chairs so far. Best chair upgrade.
- I mostly stand on a [Topo standing mat](https://ergodriven.com/products/topo?variant=27365321411). I'm not _super convinced_ about the ridges and things, but it is very comfy and I _think_ I got a bundle deal from Fully when I bought the Jarvis. My memory is suspect, though.

### Software

- My SCM tool of choice is [git](https://git-scm.com/).
- I'm using Linux, some kind of horrible hybrid of Pop!\_OS. At least, it started life as Pop!\_OS and then I grafted a bunch of stuff on it.
- I'm using [i3](https://i3wm.org/) as my window manager.
  - It's really spooky how literally every problem I've ever had could be solved by [looking in the User's Guide first](https://i3wm.org/docs/userguide.html).
- I use [Espanso](https://espanso.org/) as a text expander.
  - I think the snippet I use the most is this: `¯\_(ツ)_/¯`
  - Espanso and kitty and Neovim don't always get along, especially with backslashes.
- I'm running [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/) as my browser.
  - I'm investigating using [Firefox Developer Edition](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/developer/), though. Neat!
- I block ads with [uBlock Origin](https://ublockorigin.com/) and [Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/).

## Online Resources

- I'm a [TiddlyWiki](https://tiddlywiki.com/) fanatic and I'm running it locally.
- [DevDocs](https://devdocs.io/) is basically always open in my browser.
  - [Here is my most recent DevDocs config](https://gist.github.com/drhayes/d43ab8be15629985c9ee17748fc852ab).
- I very much love [pinboard.in](https://pinboard.in/u:drhayes) and use it to keep stuff in the ol' exocortex.
- I'm contemplating using [sourcehut](https://sr.ht/) more for stuff. GitHub seems to be, inexplicably, turning itself into a social network?
- Or maybe [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/). Who knows.

## Odds and Ends

- I'm an avid user of the [asdf package manager](https://asdf-vm.com/). Every repo I touch tends to have a `.tool-versions` file at its root.

Commit message:

Added crontab and regexr to my uses page.

src/uses.md, after:

---
title: What I Use
description: The stuff I use to get what I need to do done.
date: 2023-09-13
---

Inspired by [Wes Bos' /uses page](https://wesbos.com/uses) and [the whole host of other /uses pages out there](https://uses.tech/) I present: the things I use!

{% aside "No affiliate links!" %}
None of the links here are meant to be affiliate links. If any end up being affiliate links that is a mistake on my part and I'd love to [hear about it](mailto:hi@drhayes.io).
{% endaside %}

## Editor and Terminal

- [Neovim](https://neovim.io/) is my text editor. I try to stay familiar with all of them, but this is my go-to.
  - Before that I was mostly a [Sublime Text](https://www.sublimetext.com/) kind of person.
  - I mostly only used [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) under a kind of duress, since I get frustrated with Electron apps pretty easily.
- [Here is my Neovim config](https://github.com/drhayes/neovim-config/), which is mostly based on [LazyVim](https://www.lazyvim.org/).
- [Berkeley Mono](https://berkeleygraphics.com/typefaces/berkeley-mono/) is my current favorite programming font.
  - Before that I used [Inconsolata](https://www.levien.com/type/myfonts/inconsolata.html). I might switch back, who knows.
- [kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/) is my terminal of choice.
  - I'm starting to wonder if I should start using [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux) instead, since so many of the kitty features I like are in tmux as well as some others I might find handy.
- My shell of choice is [fish](https://fishshell.com/). I greatly enjoy the highlighting, the interactivity, and the sensible scripting.
  - Most of my customizations are in [my drfish repo](https://github.com/drhayes/drfish).
  - I _feel_ like [ghclone](https://github.com/drhayes/drfish/blob/70668defbb44b39495eea28dc4b31acc935bcb0c/functions/ghclone.fish) is my most useful function.
  - I sure use the heck out of my `cd*` functions, though.
  - Check out my incomplete attempt to make a [system setup script](https://github.com/drhayes/drfish/blob/70668defbb44b39495eea28dc4b31acc935bcb0c/functions/drenv-setup.fish)!

## Desktop

### Hardware and Desk

- My desktop machine is a [System76 Thelio](https://system76.com/desktops/thelio).
- I'm using a [Ergodox EZ](https://ergodox-ez.com/) keyboard.
  - I'm switching to a [Moonlander](https://www.zsa.io/moonlander/) very soon, just waiting on shipment.
- Currently mousing with the [Kensington Expert Mouse Wireless Trackball](https://www.kensington.com/p/products/ergonomic-desk-accessories/ergonomic-input-devices/expert-mouse-wireless-trackball-1/).
  - I've used nearly every kind of trackball and non-mouse mouse in my quest for a pain-free computer experience. Happy to provide opinions if asked!
- My monitor is a LG 32UD99-W 32-Inch 4K UHD IPS Monitor. Only one monitor right now, the window manager makes multiple workspaces easy. Big enough that I enjoy the resolutions when I want them, but not so large that it blocks my window.
- I've got a [Yeti Blue](https://www.logitechg.com/en-us/products/streaming-gear/yeti-premium-usb-microphone.988-000100.html) as my mic.
- I use a Logitech HD Pro Webcam C920x. I believe the most updated version is the "C920s".
- Everything is on a [Fully](https://fully.com/) standing desk, the [Jarvis contour desk](https://store.hermanmiller.com/standing-desks/jarvis-bamboo-standing-desk/2542428.html?lang=en_US) at 48" wide with programmable height adjustment.
  - I stand to do any serious kind of typing work, about 80% of any given day.
- My chair is a no-name display model I bought used at Office Depot; no arms and surprisingly un-cat-scratched.
  - I'm using [these game-changer chair wheels](https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01CTIG4GE/ref=ppx_yo_dt_b_search_asin_title?ie=UTF8&psc=1) and have transferred them from three chairs so far. Best chair upgrade.
- I mostly stand on a [Topo standing mat](https://ergodriven.com/products/topo?variant=27365321411). I'm not _super convinced_ about the ridges and things, but it is very comfy and I _think_ I got a bundle deal from Fully when I bought the Jarvis. My memory is suspect, though.

### Software

- My SCM tool of choice is [git](https://git-scm.com/).
- I'm using Linux, some kind of horrible hybrid of Pop!\_OS. At least, it started life as Pop!\_OS and then I grafted a bunch of stuff on it.
- I'm using [i3](https://i3wm.org/) as my window manager.
  - It's really spooky how literally every problem I've ever had could be solved by [looking in the User's Guide first](https://i3wm.org/docs/userguide.html).
- I use [Espanso](https://espanso.org/) as a text expander.
  - I think the snippet I use the most is this: `¯\_(ツ)_/¯`
  - Espanso and kitty and Neovim don't always get along, especially with backslashes.
- I'm running [Firefox](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/new/) as my browser.
  - I'm investigating using [Firefox Developer Edition](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/developer/), though. Neat!
- I block ads with [uBlock Origin](https://ublockorigin.com/) and [Privacy Badger](https://privacybadger.org/).

## Online Resources

- I'm a [TiddlyWiki](https://tiddlywiki.com/) fanatic and I'm running it locally.
- [DevDocs](https://devdocs.io/) is basically always open in my browser.
  - [Here is my most recent DevDocs config](https://gist.github.com/drhayes/d43ab8be15629985c9ee17748fc852ab).
- I very much love [pinboard.in](https://pinboard.in/u:drhayes) and use it to keep stuff in the ol' exocortex.
- I'm contemplating using [sourcehut](https://sr.ht/) more for stuff. GitHub seems to be, inexplicably, turning itself into a social network?
- Or maybe [Codeberg](https://codeberg.org/). Who knows.
- I visit [crontab.guru](https://crontab.guru/) if I'm ever unsure of a crontab expression.
- [RegExr](https://regexr.com/) helps me with complex regular expressions.

## Odds and Ends

- I'm an avid user of the [asdf package manager](https://asdf-vm.com/). Every repo I touch tends to have a `.tool-versions` file at its root.
